in this lesson we're going to talk
briefly about the Fermata it's a symbol
with it and it's a diet kind of looks
like an eye
that's just what it looks like a little
eyeball but it is called a Fermata it
means to pause the music you're going to
hold on whatever note the Fermata
is on and you need to hold that note for
quite longer usually than what people
think because if you don't hold it long
enough it's going to sound like a
mistake let's take a look at when the
saints go marching in line for measure
one
there's your firmata you have two beats
worth of rest one two you get two three
and they're telling you to pause when my
students in the studio are learning to
do this here's how I tell them to do it
play the Fermanagh turnaround ask me how
my day was then I'll ask you how your
day was and then your fermata might be
done one two three so how was your day
mine was good had a leaf blower going by
while I was trying to videotape but
other than that things are fine notice I
picked up right to tempo on the very
next note when I did move forward but
once again do not count the pramanas you
pause lose your rhythm all together and
then restart if you hold it too short if
you don't hold it long enough it's going
to sound like you played it for three
beats or for four or for two instead of
pausing and then it's gonna throw your
rhythm off so just hold it for a while
and you are good that's the Fermata
you